Update introduction (#29275)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/introduction.md

ms.custom: "updateeachrelease"
recommendations: false
---
# What is .NET?

.NET is a free, cross-platform, open source developer platform for [building applications](tutorials/with-visual-studio-code.md). .NET is built on a [high-performance runtime](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/performance/) that is used in production by many [high-scale apps](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/developer-stories/).

You can [download and use .NET](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) for building many types of apps.

**Cloud apps**

* [Web apps, web APIs, and microservices](/aspnet/core/introduction-to-aspnet-core#recommended-learning-path)
* [Serverless functions in the cloud](/azure/azure-functions/functions-create-first-function-vs-code?pivots=programming-language-csharp)
* [Cloud native apps](../architecture/cloud-native/index.md)

**Cross-platform client apps**

> * [Mobile apps](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/learn/xamarin/hello-world-tutorial/intro)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Mobile apps](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/maui)
```

* [Mobile apps](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/learn/xamarin/hello-world-tutorial/intro)

> * Desktop apps

Reviewer: I'd add this back and link to https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/desktop which is being updated to showcase MAUI and Blazor (PR is being reviewed and should be live shortly). "Desktop" can mean web or native.

Author: This was confusing since I moved that content elsewhere. I added the link back.

https://github.com/dotnet/docs/pull/29275/commits/341d96fbf21342f0b1bbeec2c69ddf017b20a1fb

Reviewer: My point is desktop development is cross platform so should have a link here. The desktop topic on the dot.net site will skew towards cross platform clients.

Author: I understand now.

https://github.com/dotnet/docs/pull/29275/commits/70c9ee2edc7c6855b7d24623b6e21bcf69f89bc6

Author: Now that I look at this more closely, I'm confused. IMO, docs should only link to the marketing website for downloads not for information. The marketing website website should link for docs for more information. The back-and-forth suggests we've got the information architecture wrong. That's right isn't it?

ms.custom: "updateeachrelease"
recommendations: false
---

> # What is .NET?

Reviewer 2: https://www.google.com/search?q=What+is+.NET will point you to https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/dotnet/what-is-dotnet

How do we think about this doc vs. the content that the search engines actually point you to?

Author: Should we be writing this topic differently, then?

Reviewer 3: By limiting the range of content in the article, the PR as it stands seems to aim at the dotnet.microsoft.com goal of helping people "decide if they want to learn the platform" whereas the more comprehensive introduction offered by the article as it stands gets them started "learning the platform," by introducing more topics and linking to documentation that goes into more depth on those concepts.

> .NET is a free and open-source development platform for building any type of [app](tutorials/with-visual-studio-code.md). .NET is built on a [high-performance runtime](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/performance/) that is used in production by many [high-scale apps](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/app/). It is built with the community on [GitHub](https://github.com/dotnet/core).

Reviewer 2: "platform for building any type of app" is our north star, but I am not sure whether it is a fair statement to make.  I like more the wording used on https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/dotnet/what-is-dotnet .

Author: ```suggestion
NET is a free, cross-platform, open source developer platform for building many different types of [applications](tutorials/with-visual-studio-code.md). .NET is built on a [high-performance runtime](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/performance/) that is used in production by many [high-scale apps](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/app/). It is built with the community on [GitHub](https://github.com/dotnet/core).
```

> NET is a free, cross-platform, open source developer platform for building many different types of [applications](tutorials/with-visual-studio-code.md). .NET is built on a [high-performance runtime](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/performance/) that is used in production by many [high-scale apps](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/app/). It is built with the community on [GitHub](https://github.com/dotnet/core).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
NET is a free, cross-platform, open source developer platform for building many different types of [applications](tutorials/with-visual-studio-code.md). .NET is built on a [high-performance runtime](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/performance/) that is used in production by many high-scale apps. It is built with the community on [GitHub](https://github.com/dotnet/core).
```

This link doesn't work for me:

https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/app/

Author: ```suggestion
NET is a free, cross-platform, open source developer platform for building many different types of [applications](tutorials/with-visual-studio-code.md). .NET is built on a [high-performance runtime](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/performance/) that is used in production by many [high-scale apps](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/developer-stories/). It is built with the community on [GitHub](https://github.com/dotnet/core).
```

> You can use .NET for client apps, for [desktop](/dotnet/desktop/), [mobile](/xamarin/), [browser](aspnet/core/blazor), and [games](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/games).

Reviewer 5: should we say web instead browser? Also, with Blazor now coming into play with hybrid apps, should we link to aspnet/core instead?

Author: I just checked. They are called "client web" apps. We're already talking about client apps, so I guess "web" it is.

https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/apps/aspnet/web-apps/blazor

```suggestion
You can use .NET for client apps, for [desktop](/dotnet/desktop/), [mobile](/xamarin/), [web](aspnet/core/blazor), and [games](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/games).
```

You can use .NET for [cloud apps](../architecture/cloud-native/index.md), [Web apps and APIs](/aspnet/core/introduction-to-aspnet-core#recommended-learning-path), and [serverless functions](/azure/azure-functions/functions-create-first-function-vs-code?pivots=programming-language-csharp). .NET cloud apps are competitively measured by the [techempower benchmark](https://www.techempower.com/benchmarks/#test=composite).

.NET can be used for many other apps, like [IoT](dotnet/iot/), [Tools](/dotnet/core/tools/global-tools), and [machine learning](../machine-learning/index.yml).

> ## Runtime Technology

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Runtime technology
```

> .NET can be used for many other apps, like [IoT](dotnet/iot/), [Tools](/dotnet/core/tools/global-tools), [machine learning](../machine-learning/index.yml), and [NativeAOT](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/61231).

Reviewer 5: should we add NativeAOT after it launches? We are also not talking about MAUI here, although we should add it once it ships.

Author: ```suggestion
.NET can be used for many other apps, like [IoT](dotnet/iot/), [Tools](/dotnet/core/tools/global-tools), and [machine learning](../machine-learning/index.yml).
```

> The .NET [Common Language Runtime (CLR)](../standard/clr.md) is a low-level, cross-platform runtime. The CLR provides type and memory safety, handles memory allocation and garbage collection, creates and manages threads, and affords native API interoperability and many other functions.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The .NET [Common Language Runtime (CLR)](../standard/clr.md) is a low-level, cross-platform runtime. The CLR provides type and memory safety, it handles memory allocation and garbage collection, creates and manages threads, and affords native API interoperability and many other functions.
```

> The .NET [Common Language Runtime (CLR)](../standard/clr.md) is a low-level cross-platform runtime. The CLR provides type and memory safety, handles memory allocation and garbage collection, thread creation and management, native API interop, and many other functions.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The .NET [Common Language Runtime (CLR)](../standard/clr.md) is a low-level, cross-platform runtime. The CLR provides type and memory safety, handles memory allocation and garbage collection, creates and manages threads, and affords native API interoperability and many other functions.
```

Reviewer 6: The grammar wasn't quite right, so I tried to fix it.

> .NET apps are compiled to a compact code format that can be supported on any operating system or chip hardware. Most .NET apps use APIs that are supported in multiple environments, requiring only the .NET
> runtime to run.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.NET apps are compiled to a compact code format that can be supported on any operating system or chip hardware. Most .NET apps use APIs that are supported in multiple environments, requiring only the .NET runtime to run.
```

## Languages

The CLR is designed to support multiple programming languages. C#, F#, and Visual Basic are supported by Microsoft.

* [C#](../csharp/index.yml) is a modern, object-oriented, and type-safe programming language. It has its roots in the C family of languages and will be immediately familiar to C, C++, Java, and JavaScript programmers.

* [F#](../fsharp/index.yml) is an interoperable programming language for writing succinct, robust and performant code. F# programming is data-oriented, where code involves transforming data with functions.
  
* [Visual Basic](../visual-basic/index.yml) uses a more verbose syntax that is closer to ordinary human language. It can be an easier language to learn for people new to programming.

> ## Libraries and Frameworks

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Libraries and frameworks
```

> .NET includes libraries and frameworks for many topics and app types. This ranges from data structures like string and Dictionary to utility functions like HTTP and RegEx to app frameworks like Windows Forms and ASP.NET Core.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
.NET includes libraries and frameworks for many topics and app types. These affordances range from data structures like `string` and `Dictionary`, to utility functions like HTTP and RegEx, to app frameworks like Windows Forms and ASP.NET Core.
```

[NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/) is the package manager for .NET. It offers many [popular packages](https://www.nuget.org/stats/packages) from the community.

## Tools

> The [.NET SDK](sdk.md) includes a set of [CLI](tools/index.md) tools, including [MSBuild](/visualstudio/msbuild/msbuild) build engine, the [Roslyn](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn) (C# and VB) compiler, and the [F#](https://github.com/microsoft/visualfsharp) language compiler. Most commands are run from `dotnet`. The CLI tools can be used for local development and continuous integration.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The [.NET SDK](sdk.md) includes a set of [CLI](tools/index.md) tools, including the [MSBuild](/visualstudio/msbuild/msbuild) build engine, the [Roslyn](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn) (C# and Visual Basic) compiler, and the [F#](https://github.com/microsoft/visualfsharp) language compiler. Most commands are run from `dotnet`. The CLI tools can be used for local development and continuous integration.
```

> [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/) family IDEs offer excellent support for .NET and C#, F#, and VB languages.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/) family of IDEs offer excellent support for .NET and the C#, F#, and Visual Basic languages.
```

> [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions), [GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces) and [GitHub security features](https://github.com/features/security) support .NET.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
[GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions), [GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces), and [GitHub security features](https://github.com/features/security) support .NET.
```

---
# What is .NET? Introduction and overview

.NET is a free, cross-platform, open source developer platform for building applications. .NET is built on a [high-performance runtime](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/performance/) that is used in production by many [high-scale apps](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/developer-stories/).

You can [download .NET](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) and use it for building many types of apps.

**Cloud apps**

* [Web apps, web APIs, and microservices](/aspnet/core/introduction-to-aspnet-core#recommended-learning-path)
* [Serverless functions in the cloud](/azure/azure-functions/functions-create-first-function-vs-code?pivots=programming-language-csharp)
* [Cloud native apps](../architecture/cloud-native/index.md)

**Cross-platform client apps**

> * [Mobile apps](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/maui)

Author: ```suggestion
* [Desktop apps](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/desktop)
* [Mobile apps](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/maui)
```

* [Games](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/games)

**Other app types**

* [Console apps](tutorials/with-visual-studio-code.md)

> * Windows Desktop apps

Author: ```suggestion
* [Windows Desktop apps](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/desktop)
```

---
# What is .NET? Introduction and overview

.NET is a free, cross-platform, open source developer platform for building applications. .NET is built on a [high-performance runtime](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/performance/) that is used in production by many [high-scale apps](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/developer-stories/).

You can [download .NET](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) and use it for building many types of apps.

> 

Author: I don't think most users care about that as their first concern. Let's focus on the value the platform offers. I'm trying to push all the "fine print" details lower (or remove them entirely).

---
# What is .NET? Introduction and overview

> .NET is a free, cross-platform, open source developer platform for building applications. .NET is built on a [high-performance runtime](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/performance/) that is used in production by many [high-scale apps](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/developer-stories/).

Author: ```suggestion
.NET is a free, cross-platform, open source developer platform for building many kinds of applications. .NET is built on a [high-performance runtime](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/performance/) that is used in production by many [high-scale apps](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/developer-stories/).
```

> .NET is a free, cross-platform, open source developer platform for building applications. .NET is built on a [high-performance runtime](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/performance/) that is used in production by many [high-scale apps](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/category/developer-stories/).

Reviewer 7: LGTM

You can [download .NET](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) and use it for building many types of apps.

**Cloud apps**

* [Cloud native apps](../architecture/cloud-native/index.md)
* [Console apps](tutorials/with-visual-studio-code.md)
* [Serverless functions in the cloud](/azure/azure-functions/functions-create-first-function-vs-code?pivots=programming-language-csharp)
* [Web apps, web APIs, and microservices](/aspnet/core/introduction-to-aspnet-core#recommended-learning-path)

**Cross-platform client apps**

* [Desktop apps](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/desktop)
* [Games](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/games)
* [Mobile apps](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/maui)

**Windows apps**

* [Windows Desktop apps](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/desktop)
  * [Windows Forms](/dotnet/desktop/winforms/)
  * [Windows WPF](/dotnet/desktop/wpf/)
  * [Universal Windows Platform (UWP)](/windows/uwp/get-started/create-a-hello-world-app-xaml-universal)
* [Windows services](/aspnet/core/host-and-deploy/windows-service)

**Other app types**

* [Machine learning](../machine-learning/index.yml)
* [Internet of Things (IoT)](../iot/index.yml)

## Features

> .NET includes many features that enable developers to productively write reliable and performant code.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
.NET features allow developers to productively write reliable and performant code.
```
less wishy washy?

* [Console apps](tutorials/with-visual-studio-code.md)
* [Serverless functions in the cloud](/azure/azure-functions/functions-create-first-function-vs-code?pivots=programming-language-csharp)
* [Web apps, web APIs, and microservices](/aspnet/core/introduction-to-aspnet-core#recommended-learning-path)

**Cross-platform client apps**

* [Desktop apps](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/desktop)
* [Games](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/games)
* [Mobile apps](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/maui)

**Windows apps**

* [Windows Desktop apps](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/desktop)
  * [Windows Forms](/dotnet/desktop/winforms/)
  * [Windows WPF](/dotnet/desktop/wpf/)
  * [Universal Windows Platform (UWP)](/windows/uwp/get-started/create-a-hello-world-app-xaml-universal)
* [Windows services](/aspnet/core/host-and-deploy/windows-service)

**Other app types**

* [Machine learning](../machine-learning/index.yml)
* [Internet of Things (IoT)](../iot/index.yml)

## Features

.NET includes many features that enable developers to productively write reliable and performant code.

* [Asynchronous code](../csharp/programming-guide/concepts/async/index.md)

> * [Attributes](../standard/attributes/index.md)

Reviewer 2: This list should include Reflection

Author: ```suggestion
* [Attributes](../standard/attributes/index.md)
* Reflection
```

It appears that we only have a .NET Framework version of this doc. Logged an issue https://github.com/dotnet/docs/issues/29741

* [Delegates and lambdas](../standard/delegates-lambdas.md)
* [Events](../standard/events/index.md)
* [Exceptions](../standard/exceptions/index.md)
* [Garbage collection](../standard/automatic-memory-management.md)
* [Generic types](../standard/generics.md)
* [LINQ (Language Integrated Query)](../standard/linq/index.md).
* [Parallel programming](../standard/parallel-programming/index.md)
* [Type system](../standard/base-types/common-type-system.md)
* [Unsafe code](../csharp/language-reference/unsafe-code.md)

Compilers and other tools offer:

* [Code analyzers](../fundamentals/code-analysis/overview.md)

> * [Source Link (source maps)](https://github.com/dotnet/sourcelink/blob/main/README.md)

Author: ```suggestion
```

</Project>
```

Source code:

```csharp
Console.WriteLine("Hello, World!");
```

The app can be built and run with the [.NET CLI](tools/index.md):

```bash
% dotnet run
Hello, World!
```

It can also be built and run as two separate steps. The following example is for an app that is named *app*:

```bash
% dotnet build
% ./bin/Debug/net6.0/app 
Hello, World!
```

## Binary distributions

* [.NET SDK](sdk.md) -- Set of tools, libraries, and runtimes for development, building, and testing apps.
* [.NET Runtimes](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet) -- Set of runtimes and libraries, for running apps.

You can download .NET from:

> * [The Microsoft download site](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/)
> * [Containers](https://mcr.microsoft.com/catalog?search=dotnet/)
> * [Linux package managers](install/linux.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [The Microsoft download site](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/).
* [Containers](https://mcr.microsoft.com/catalog?search=dotnet/).
* [Linux package managers](install/linux.md).
```

## Free and open source

.NET is free, open source, and is a [.NET Foundation](https://dotnetfoundation.org/) [project](https://dotnetfoundation.org/projects/netcore/). .NET is maintained by Microsoft and the community on GitHub in [several repositories](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/main/Documentation/core-repos.md).

.NET source and and binaries are licensed with the [MIT license](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/LICENSE.TXT). Additional [licenses apply on Windows](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/main/license-information-windows.md) for binary distributions.

## Support

[Microsoft supports .NET](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/main/os-lifecycle-policy.md) on Android, Apple, Linux, and Windows operating systems. It can be used on Arm64, x64, and x86 architectures. It is also supported in emulated environments, like [macOS Rosetta 2](https://support.apple.com/HT211861).

> New versions of .NET are released annually in November. .NET releases in odd-numbered years are Long-term Support (LTS) releases and are supported for three years. Releases in even-numbered years are Short-team Support (STS) releases and are supported for 18 months. The quality level, breaking change policies, and all other aspects of the releases are the same. For more information, see [Releases and support](releases-and-support.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
New versions of .NET are released annually in November. .NET releases in odd-numbered years are Long-term Support (LTS) releases and are supported for three years. Releases in even-numbered years are Short-term Support (STS) releases and are supported for 18 months. The quality level, breaking change policies, and all other aspects of the releases are the same. For more information, see [Releases and support](releases-and-support.md).
```

The .NET Team at Microsoft works collaboratively with other organizations to distribute and support .NET in various ways.

[Red Hat supports .NET](https://developers.redhat.com/topics/dotnet/) on Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL).

[Samsung supports .NET](https://developer.tizen.org/development/training/.net-application) on Tizen platforms.

> ## Runtime technology

Author: ```suggestion
## Runtime
```

The [Common Language Runtime (CLR)](../standard/clr.md) is the foundation all .NET apps are built on. The [fundamental features of the runtime](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/docs/design/coreclr/botr/intro-to-clr.md) are:

> * Garbage collection
> * Memory safety and type safety
> * High level support for programming languages
> * Cross-platform design

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Garbage collection.
* Memory safety and type safety.
* High level support for programming languages.
* Cross-platform design.
```

> .NET is sometimes called a "managed code" runtime. It is called *managed* primarily because it uses a garbage collector for memory management and because it enforces type and memory safety. The CLR is also virtualizes (or abstracts) a variety of operating system and hardware concepts, such as memory, threads, and exceptions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.NET is sometimes called a "managed code" runtime. It is called *managed* primarily because it uses a garbage collector for memory management and because it enforces type and memory safety. The CLR virtualizes (or abstracts) a variety of operating system and hardware concepts, such as memory, threads, and exceptions.
```

* [F#](../fsharp/index.yml) is an interoperable programming language for writing succinct, robust, and performant code. F# programming is data-oriented, where code involves transforming data with functions.
  
* [Visual Basic](../visual-basic/index.yml) uses a more verbose syntax that is closer to ordinary human language. It can be an easier language to learn for people new to programming.

## Compilation

.NET apps (as written in a high-level language like C#) are compiled to an [Intermediate Language (IL)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Intermediate_Language). IL is a compact code format that can be supported on any operating system or architecture. Most .NET apps use APIs that are supported in multiple environments, requiring only the .NET runtime to run.

IL needs to be compiled to native code in order to execute on a CPU, for example Arm64 or x64. .NET supports both Ahead-Of-Time (AOT) and Just-In-Time (JIT) compilation models.

* On Android, Linux, macOS, and Linux, JIT compilation is the default, and AOT is optional (for example, with [ReadyToRun](deploying/ready-to-run.md)).
* On [iOS](/xamarin/ios/), AOT is mandatory (except when running in the simulator).

> * In Wasm environments, AOT is mandatory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* In WebAssembly (Wasm) environments, AOT is mandatory.
```

In 2014, Microsoft introduced .NET Core as a cross-platform, open-source successor to .NET Framework. This new [implementation of .NET](../standard/glossary.md#implementation-of-net) kept the name .NET Core through version 3.1. The next version after .NET Core 3.1 was named .NET 5.

New .NET versions continue to be released annually, each a major version number higher. They include significant new features and often enable new scenarios.

## .NET ecosystem

There are multiple variants of .NET, each supporting a different type of app. The reason for multiple variants is part historical, part technical.

.NET implementations (historical order):

* **.NET Framework** -- It provides access to the broad capabilities of Windows and Windows Server. Also extensively used for Windows-based cloud computing. The original .NET.
* **Mono** -- A cross-platform implementation of .NET Framework. The original community and open source .NET. Used for Android, iOS, and Wasm apps.

> * **.NET (Core)** -- A cross-platform and open source implementation of .NET, re-thought for the cloud age while remaining significantly compatible with .NET Framework. Uses for Linux, macOS, and Windows support.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **.NET (Core)** -- A cross-platform and open source implementation of .NET, rethought for the cloud age while remaining significantly compatible with .NET Framework. Used for Linux, macOS, and Windows apps.
```

| [Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection) | [Dependency injection (DI)](extensions/dependency-injection.md)
| [Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration) | [Configuration](extensions/configuration.md) |
| [Microsoft.Extensions.Logging](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Logging) | [Logging](extensions/logging.md) |
| [Microsoft.Extensions.Options](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Options) | [Options pattern](extensions/options.md) |

## Tools

The [.NET SDK](sdk.md) includes a set of [CLI](tools/index.md) tools, including the [MSBuild](/visualstudio/msbuild/msbuild) build engine, the [Roslyn](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn) (C# and Visual Basic) compiler, and the [F#](https://github.com/microsoft/visualfsharp) language compiler. Most commands are run from `dotnet`. The CLI tools can be used for local development and continuous integration.

The [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/) family of IDEs offer excellent support for .NET and the C#, F#, and Visual Basic languages.

> [GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces), and [GitHub security features](https://github.com/features/security) support .NET.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces) and [GitHub security features](https://github.com/features/security) support .NET.
```

* [.NET In-Browser Tutorial](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/learn/dotnet/in-browser-tutorial/1)
* [Using .NET notebooks with Jupyter on your machine](https://github.com/dotnet/interactive/blob/main/docs/NotebookswithJupyter.md)
* [.NET Interactive documentation](https://github.com/dotnet/interactive/blob/main/docs/README.md)

## CI/CD

MSBuild and the .NET CLI can be used with various continuous integration tools and environments, such as:

* [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions)
* [Azure DevOps](/azure/devops/user-guide/what-is-azure-devops)
* [CAKE for C#](https://cakebuild.net/)
* [FAKE for F#](https://fake.build/)

For more information, see [Using .NET SDK and tools in Continuous Integration (CI)](tools/using-ci-with-cli.md)

## Deployment models

.NET apps can be [published in two different modes](deploying/index.md):

* *Self-contained* apps includes the .NET runtime and dependent libraries. They can be [single-file](deploying/single-file/overview) or multi-file. Users of the application can run it on a machine that doesn't have the .NET runtime installed. Self-contained apps always target a single operating system and chip configuration.

> * *Framework-dependent* apps require a compatible version of the .NET runtime, typically installed globally. Framework-dependent apps can be published for a single operating system and chip configuration or as "portable" targeting all supported configurations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* *Framework-dependent* apps require a compatible version of the .NET runtime, typically installed globally. Framework-dependent apps can be published for a single operating system and chip configuration or as "portable," targeting all supported configurations.
```

</Project>
```

Source:

```csharp
Console.WriteLine("Hello, World!");
```

The app can be built and run with the [.NET CLI](tools/index.md):

```bash
% dotnet run
Hello, World!
```

It can also be built and run as two separate steps (assuming an app called `app`):

```bash
% dotnet build
% ./bin/Debug/net6.0/app 
Hello, World!
```

## Free and open source

.NET is free, open source, and is a [.NET Foundation](https://dotnetfoundation.org/) [project](https://dotnetfoundation.org/projects/netcore/). .NET is maintained by Microsoft and the community on GitHub in [several repositories](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/main/Documentation/core-repos.md).

.NET source and and binaries are licensed with the [MIT license](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/LICENSE.TXT). Additional [licenses apply on Windows](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/main/license-information-windows.md) for binary distributions.

## Binary distributions

You can [download .NET](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/6.0) for development or production scenarios:

> * [.NET SDK](sdk.md) -- enables development and CI scenarios.

Author: ```suggestion
* [.NET SDK](sdk.md) -- Tools, libraries, and runtimes for development, testing, and CI scenarios.
```

> * [.NET Runtimes](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/6.0/runtime) -- required for framework-dependent apps for test or production deployment. For more information, see [Deployment models](#deployment-models) later in this article.

Author: This phrasing doesn't ring true for me. Why do we need to say "w/o development tools"? Also, it's missing the point that the runtime is included. Also, the `dotnet` tools *is* included with all Runtimes.

"Sets of libraries" doesn't make sense to me as a phrase. Libraries is already plural. Additional grouping (described by each "set") doesn't seem important.

```suggestion
* [.NET Runtimes](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/6.0/runtime) -- .NET host, runtime and libraries, for test and production scenarios. You install a runtime on a machine to provide the execution environment for [framework-dependent apps](#deployment-models).
```

> * [.NET Runtimes](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/6.0/runtime) -- required for framework-dependent apps for test or production deployment. For more information, see [Deployment models](#deployment-models) later in this article.

Reviewer 3: "Sets" was an attempt to have the description be plural to be consistent with "Runtimes" plural, in the sense of .NET Runtime, Desktop Runtime, and ASP.NET Core Runtime. Including "runtime" in the definition (".NET host, runtime, and libraries"), in a different sense than "Runtime" at the head of the entry is likely to be confusing, and .NET host would need explanation at this point also. "w/o dev tools" was an attempt to call out the most important difference between SDK and Runtimes, at a level easily understood by someone not familiar with .NET. The dotnet driver included with the runtime isn't intended to be a tool used for development.

> * [.NET Runtimes](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/6.0/runtime) -- required for framework-dependent apps for test or production deployment. For more information, see [Deployment models](#deployment-models) later in this article.

Author: https://github.com/dotnet/docs/pull/29275/commits/3230849247dcf0cfc77aa5b918dd98adc3cef6c3

The CLR was designed to be a cross-platform runtime from its inception. It has been ported to multiple operating systems and chip architectures. Cross-platform .NET code typically does not need to be recompiled to run in new environments.

.NET apps are compiled to an [Intermediate Language (IL)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Intermediate_Language). IL is a compact code format that can be supported on any operating system or chip hardware. Most .NET apps use APIs that are supported in multiple environments, requiring only the .NET runtime to run.

The CLR includes a Just-In-Time (JIT) compiler that compiles IL to native code at run time, targeting the underlying operating system and hardware. The JIT (called RyuJIT) can compile code at higher or lower levels of quality to enable better startup and steady-state throughput performance.

> The CLR also offers some "native code" capabilities, primarily oriented on performance. Applications can be ahead-of-time compiled to avoid most of the cost of the JIT at runtime. The CLR offers low-level C-style interop functionality, via a combination of [P/Invoke](../standard/native-interop/index.md), value types, and the ability to [blit](../framework/interop/blittable-and-non-blittable-types) values across the native/managed-code boundary.

Reviewer 3: Could say more about AOT, like the info in the [AOT compiler](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/introduction#aot-compiler) section of the current version of the article.

> The CLR also offers some "native code" capabilities, primarily oriented on performance. Applications can be ahead-of-time compiled to avoid most of the cost of the JIT at runtime. The CLR offers low-level C-style interop functionality, via a combination of [P/Invoke](../standard/native-interop/index.md), value types, and the ability to [blit](../framework/interop/blittable-and-non-blittable-types) values across the native/managed-code boundary.

Author: I think we should just delete the AOT compiler section. It is super confusing and deserves its own topic.

> The CLR also offers some "native code" capabilities, primarily oriented on performance. Applications can be ahead-of-time compiled to avoid most of the cost of the JIT at runtime. The CLR offers low-level C-style interop functionality, via a combination of [P/Invoke](../standard/native-interop/index.md), value types, and the ability to [blit](../framework/interop/blittable-and-non-blittable-types) values across the native/managed-code boundary.

Author: I added a "Compilation" section that covers JIT and AOT topics and is accurate across the whole portfolio.

https://github.com/dotnet/docs/pull/29275/commits/9efeb4ae0146187a48736ba2b6f3fbbdea9f0120#diff-8a075dcee56c0a2dfdc0ede4f987a8ec54a370e3b34f468a253dffbe7dd26f67R156

> The CLR enables access to native memory and pointer arithmetic via [`unsafe` code](../csharp/language-reference/unsafe-code.md). These operations are needed for certain algorithms, system interoperability, or to implement the most efficient algorithm. Unsafe code might not execute the same way in different environments and also loses the benefits of the garbage collector and type safety. We recommend that you avoid unsafe code and centralize it as much as possible when it's used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The CLR enables access to native memory and pointer arithmetic via [`unsafe` code](../csharp/language-reference/unsafe-code.md). These operations are needed for certain algorithms, system interoperability, or to implement the most efficient algorithm. Unsafe code might not execute the same way in different environments and also loses the benefits of garbage collection and type safety. We recommend that you avoid unsafe code and centralize it as much as possible when it's used.
```

* Network utility types, such as <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient?displayProperty=nameWithType>.
* [File and stream I/O](../standard/io/index.md) utility types, such as <xref:System.IO.FileStream?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.IO.TextWriter?displayProperty=nameWithType>.
* [Serialization](../standard/serialization/index.md) utility types, such as <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Xml.Serialization.XmlSerializer?displayProperty=nameWithType>.
* High-performance types, such as <xref:System.Span%601?displayProperty=nameWithType>, <xref:System.Numerics.Vector?displayProperty=nameWithType>, and [Pipelines](../standard/io/pipelines.md).

For more information, see the [Runtime libraries overview](../standard/runtime-libraries-overview.md).

## NuGet Package Manager

[NuGet](/nuget/what-is-nuget) is the package manager for .NET. It enables developers to share compiled binaries with each other. [NuGet.org](https://www.nuget.org/) offers many [popular packages](https://www.nuget.org/stats/packages) from the community.

> The following table lists NuGet packages from the .NET Team:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following table lists NuGet packages from the .NET team:
```

```bash
% dotnet build
% ./bin/Debug/net6.0/app 
Hello, World!
```

## Binary distributions

You can [download .NET](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/6.0) for development or production scenarios:

* [.NET SDK](sdk.md) -- Set of tools, libraries, and runtimes for development, building, and testing apps.
* [.NET Runtimes](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/6.0/runtime) -- Set of runtimes and libraries, for running apps. Required for [framework-dependent apps](#deployment-models).

## Free and open source

.NET is free, open source, and is a [.NET Foundation](https://dotnetfoundation.org/) [project](https://dotnetfoundation.org/projects/netcore/). .NET is maintained by Microsoft and the community on GitHub in [several repositories](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/main/Documentation/core-repos.md).

.NET source and and binaries are licensed with the [MIT license](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/LICENSE.TXT). Additional [licenses apply on Windows](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/main/license-information-windows.md) for binary distributions.

> You can get the .NET SDK and runtimes from the following sources:

Reviewer 7: source and binaries? little unclear what the difference is between these and the binaries links above.

* [The Microsoft download site](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/)
* [Containers](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-dotnet)
* [Linux package managers](install/linux.md).

## Support

> [Microsoft supports .NET](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/main/os-lifecycle-policy.md) on Android, Apple, Linux, and Windows operating systems. It can be used on Arm64, x64, and x86 chips. It is also supported in emulated environments, like [macOS Rosetta 2](https://support.apple.com/HT211861).

Reviewer 7: do we still say 'chips' ? I rarely see it written these days. Maybe 'systems' or 'architectures'

> New versions of .NET are released annually in November. .NET releases in odd-numbered years are Long-term Support (LTS) releases and are supported for three years. Releases in even-numbered years are Short-team Support (STS) releases and are supported for 18 months. All other aspects of the releases are the same, like quality level and breaking change policies. For more information, see [Releases and support](releases-and-support.md).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
New versions of .NET are released annually in November. .NET releases in odd-numbered years are Long-term Support (LTS) releases and are supported for three years. Releases in even-numbered years are Short-team Support (STS) releases and are supported for 18 months. The quality level, breaking change policies, and all other aspects of the releases are the same. For more information, see [Releases and support](releases-and-support.md).
```

Reviewer 7: leading with the lede

The .NET Team at Microsoft works collaboratively with other organizations to distribute and support .NET in various ways.

[Red Hat supports .NET](https://developers.redhat.com/topics/dotnet/) on Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL).

> [Samsung supports .NET](https://developer.tizen.org/development/training/.net-application) on Tizen platforms.

Author: We could. I was thinking of corporate-supported but if there is an *active* community group, then sure.

> [Samsung supports .NET](https://developer.tizen.org/development/training/.net-application) on Tizen platforms.

Reviewer 7: @wfurt how would you characterize the level of community support for FreeBSD?

## Runtime technology

> The [Common Language Runtime (CLR)](../standard/clr.md) provides capabilities and services to apps that govern their function and also define their basic security and reliability behavior. The [fundamental features of the runtime](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/docs/design/coreclr/botr/intro-to-clr.md) are:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The [Common Language Runtime (CLR)](../standard/clr.md) is the foundation all .NET apps are built on. The [fundamental features of the runtime](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/docs/design/coreclr/botr/intro-to-clr.md) are:
```
although, there's Mono. should it just say "runtime" and describe CoreCLR/mono as instances separately?

* Garbage collection
* Memory safety and type safety
* High level support for programming languages
* Cross-platform design

> .NET is sometimes called a "managed code" runtime. It is called *managed* primarily because it uses a garbage collector for memory management and because it enforces type and memory safety. The CLR is also called a *virtual machine*. It virtualizes (or abstracts) a variety of operating system and hardware concepts, such as memory, threads, and exceptions.

Reviewer 7: I don't think the cognitive load of 'virtual machine' is worth introducing here. It has a very clear and different meaning in most people's minds. Back when .NET was created, we called it the VM but virtual machines in today's sense were (IIRC) not something most developers were exposed to. Even on our team, some old timers call it the VM but most do not call it that and I have never heard anyone on the team refer to it as a virtual machine.

Author: The JVM is the counter example. That said, I can remove this.

> The CLR was designed to be a cross-platform runtime from its inception. It has been ported to multiple operating systems and chip architectures. Cross-platform .NET code typically does not need to be recompiled to run in new environments. Instead, you just need to install a different runtime to run your app.

Reviewer 7: same comment on chip. I rarely hear that used, mostly people seem to say architecture or machine.

The runtime exposes various [diagnostics](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/diagnostics/) services and APIs for debuggers, [dump](diagnostics/dumps/) and [tracing](diagnostics/logging-tracing/) tools, and [observability](diagnostics/#instrumentation-for-observability). The observability implementation is primarily [built around OpenTelemetry](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/opentelemetry-net-reaches-v1-0/), enabling [flexible application monitoring](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/announcing-dotnet-monitor-in-net-6/) and site reliability engineering (SRE).

The runtime offers low-level C-style interop functionality, via a combination of [P/Invoke](../standard/native-interop/index.md), value types, and the ability to [blit](../framework/interop/blittable-and-non-blittable-types) values across the native/managed-code boundary.

## Languages

> The CLR is designed to support multiple programming languages. C#, F#, and Visual Basic languages are supported by Microsoft and are designed in collaboration with the community.

Author: I added a section in the end about that.

* [C#](../csharp/index.yml) is a modern, object-oriented, and type-safe programming language. It has its roots in the C family of languages and will be immediately familiar to C, C++, Java, and JavaScript programmers.

* [F#](../fsharp/index.yml) is an interoperable programming language for writing succinct, robust, and performant code. F# programming is data-oriented, where code involves transforming data with functions.
  

> * [Visual Basic](../visual-basic/index.yml) uses a more verbose syntax that is closer to ordinary human language. It can be an easier language to learn for people new to programming.

Reviewer 7: Is that true, or just a hypothesis? I have not seen evidence of this (although, I could well simply have not seen it)

The principal reason to use VB I would think is existing familiarity with VB or other Basic-style languages.

Author: This was the text from before. Thoughts @KathleenDollard?

## Compilation

.NET apps (as written in a high-level language like C#) are compiled to an [Intermediate Language (IL)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Intermediate_Language). IL is a compact code format that can be supported on any operating system or chip hardware. Most .NET apps use APIs that are supported in multiple environments, requiring only the .NET runtime to run.

> IL needs to be compiled to native code in order to execute on a CPU, for example Arm64 or x64. .NET supports both Ahead-Of-Time (AOT) and Just-In-Time (JIT) compilation models. For example, on Android, Linux, macOS, and Linux, JIT compilation is the default, and AOT is optional (for example, with [ReadyToRun](deploy/ready-to-run.md)). On [iOS](/xamarin/ios/), AOT is mandatory (except when running in the simulator).

Reviewer 7: this almost seems like a table would be a better presentation.

> The advantage of the JIT is that it can compile an app (unmodified) to the CPU instructions and calling conventions in a given environment, per the underlying operating system and hardware. It can also compile code at higher or lower levels of quality to enable better startup and steady-state throughput performance.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The advantage of JIT compilation is that it can generate code for the specific hardware that the program is running on. It also has the opportunity to dynamically vary the level of optimization of the code it generates based on observations as the program executes - for example to favor faster startup over faster steady-state throughput performance.
```

Author: Not quite. Tiering doesn't have to favor startup over faster steady state. It gives both.

> The advantage of AOT is that it provides the best app startup and can result in smaller deployments. The primary downside is that binaries must be built for each separate deployment target (the same as any other native code).

Author: This is where I'm probably conflating things. What I meant (and didn't say) is that for CoreCLR apps, the trimmer can only trim so far. For NativeAOT, it can trim much farther (into what we think of as the runtime).

> The advantage of AOT is that it provides the best app startup and can result in smaller deployments. The primary downside is that binaries must be built for each separate deployment target (the same as any other native code).

Author: Unless you are referring to NGEN, our AOT story doesn't really have versioning problems. Right?

## Runtime libraries

> .NET has an expansive standard set of class libraries. These libraries provide implementations for many general-purpose and workload-specific types and utility functionality.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
.NET has a comprehensive standard set of class libraries. These libraries provide implementations for many general-purpose and workload-specific types and utility functionality.
```
or extensive

| [Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection) | [Dependency injection (DI)](extensions/dependency-injection.md)
| [Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration) | [Configuration](extensions/configuration.md) |
| [Microsoft.Extensions.Logging](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Logging) | [Logging](extensions/logging.md) |
| [Microsoft.Extensions.Options](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Options) | [Options pattern](extensions/options.md) |

## Tools

The [.NET SDK](sdk.md) is a set of libraries and [tools](tools/index.md) for developing and running .NET applications. It includes the [MSBuild](/visualstudio/msbuild/msbuild) build engine, the [Roslyn](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn) (C# and Visual Basic) compiler, and the [F#](https://github.com/microsoft/visualfsharp) compiler. Most commands are run by using the [`dotnet` command](tools/dotnet.md). The CLI tools can be used for local development and continuous integration.

> The [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/) family of IDEs offer excellent support for .NET and the C#, F#, and Visual Basic languages.

Author: Good point. I defined it (just now) earlier in the document.

* *Framework-dependent* apps require a compatible version of the .NET runtime, typically installed globally. Framework-dependent apps can be published for a single operating system and chip configuration or as "portable," targeting all supported configurations.

.NET apps are launched with a native executable, by default. The executable is both operating system and chip-specific. Apps can also be launched with the [`dotnet` command](tools/dotnet.md).

Apps can be [deployed in containers](docker/introduction.md). Microsoft provides [container images](https://mcr.microsoft.com/catalog?search=dotnet) for a variety of target environments.

## History

In 2002, Microsoft released [.NET Framework](../framework/get-started/overview.md), a development platform for creating Windows apps. Today .NET Framework is at version 4.8 and remains [supported by Microsoft](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy/dotnet-framework).

> In 2014, Microsoft introduced .NET Core as a cross-platform, open-source successor to .NET Framework. This new [implementation of .NET](../standard/glossary.md#implementation-of-net) kept the name .NET Core through version 3.1. The next version after .NET Core 3.1 was named .NET 5. New .NET versions continue to be released annually, with a growing set of features and supported scenarios.

Reviewer 7: maybe worth a reminder that the major version # increments by 1 each year

> In 2014, Microsoft introduced .NET Core as a cross-platform, open-source successor to .NET Framework. This new [implementation of .NET](../standard/glossary.md#implementation-of-net) kept the name .NET Core through version 3.1. The next version after .NET Core 3.1 was named .NET 5. New .NET versions continue to be released annually, with a growing set of features and supported scenarios.

Author: @terrajobst tells us 2014 -> https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/net-core-is-open-source/

</Project>
```

Source code:

```csharp
Console.WriteLine("Hello, World!");
```

The app can be built and run with the [.NET CLI](tools/index.md):

```bash
% dotnet run
Hello, World!
```

It can also be built and run as two separate steps. The following example is for an app that is named *app*:

```bash
% dotnet build
% ./bin/Debug/net6.0/app 
Hello, World!
```

## Binary distributions

> You can [download .NET](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/6.0) for development or production scenarios:

Reviewer 8: I would not use a specific version in the link, unless we are signing up for an annual reminder to update to the latest 'current'.

Reviewer 8: There are a few 6.0 links that my commend equally applies too.

Author: ```suggestion
You can [download .NET](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet) for development or production scenarios:
```

* [Containers](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-dotnet)
* [Linux package managers](install/linux.md).

## Support

[Microsoft supports .NET](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/main/os-lifecycle-policy.md) on Android, Apple, Linux, and Windows operating systems. It can be used on Arm64, x64, and x86 chips. It is also supported in emulated environments, like [macOS Rosetta 2](https://support.apple.com/HT211861).

New versions of .NET are released annually in November. .NET releases in odd-numbered years are Long-term Support (LTS) releases and are supported for three years. Releases in even-numbered years are Short-team Support (STS) releases and are supported for 18 months. All other aspects of the releases are the same, like quality level and breaking change policies. For more information, see [Releases and support](releases-and-support.md).

The .NET Team at Microsoft works collaboratively with other organizations to distribute and support .NET in various ways.

[Red Hat supports .NET](https://developers.redhat.com/topics/dotnet/) on Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL).

[Samsung supports .NET](https://developer.tizen.org/development/training/.net-application) on Tizen platforms.

> ## Runtime technology

Reviewer 8: Not sure if it is critical for this intro doc, but there are runtime technology(s) in our stack: coreclr, mono, native aot, etc.  Perhaps a note that the runtime used is tailored to the scenario.

Author: There was more of that in the current doc, but it is super confusing. I think a new doc with that info is warranted.

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/introduction#net-core-net-framework-mono-uwp

Author: I added a (starter) section at the end.

* Network utility types, such as <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient?displayProperty=nameWithType>.
* [File and stream I/O](../standard/io/index.md) utility types, such as <xref:System.IO.FileStream?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.IO.TextWriter?displayProperty=nameWithType>.
* [Serialization](../standard/serialization/index.md) utility types, such as <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Xml.Serialization.XmlSerializer?displayProperty=nameWithType>.
* High-performance types, such as <xref:System.Span%601?displayProperty=nameWithType>, <xref:System.Numerics.Vector?displayProperty=nameWithType>, and [Pipelines](../standard/io/pipelines.md).

For more information, see the [Runtime libraries overview](../standard/runtime-libraries-overview.md).

## NuGet Package Manager

[NuGet](/nuget/what-is-nuget) is the package manager for .NET. It enables developers to share compiled binaries with each other. [NuGet.org](https://www.nuget.org/) offers many [popular packages](https://www.nuget.org/stats/packages) from the community.

> The following table lists NuGet packages from the .NET team:

Author: Good call. Are they the most important? This is the existing table. I didn't try to improve it. Should we just nuke it?

> The following table lists NuGet packages from the .NET team:

Reviewer 2: Either nuke it, or change it to be a table of most popular nuget packages (based on nuget.org download counts).

> The following table lists NuGet packages from the .NET team:

Reviewer 9: Nuking seems fine; I don't think the ones listed are the most important nor the most representative. It would entirely depend on the kind of app you're building IMHO.

We could point to the .NET team NuGet user names but there are also a lot of packages that we don't really expect developers to reference (e.g. all the runtime and ref packs). Sadly, those are downloaded a lot hence they tend to rank highly and thus paint a very "deep in the weeds" or "gory implementation details".

*If* we want to include some NuGet packages my recommendation would be to pick packages that are app model neutral, generally referenced as a package (as opposed to being auto referenced as part of a shared framework), and not legacy (provided for backwards compatibility and/or porting from .NET Framework).

Good candidates would be:

* EF Core (`Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore`)
* SQL Client (`Microsoft.Data.SqlClient`)
* IoT (`System.Device.Gpio`)

> The following table lists NuGet packages from the .NET team:

Author: I nuked it. We can come with something different if we want later.
